(Please write your Enrollment Number) 
Enrollment No. 
 
 
MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
BBA SEMESTER IV 
(MARCH 2025) OFF LINE MODE 
 
Subject Code: AMC 204 
Subject Name: Management Information System 
Time : 1 ½Hours 
Maximum Marks : 30 
 
Note:  Q1. is compulsory 
 
Q1 
(2.5*4) 
CO 
(a) 
Compare data and information? Explain the categories of information? 
CO1 
(b) 
Explain business processes and their relationship with information systems? 
CO1 
(c) 
Explain Feasibility Study and types of feasibility study with examples? 
CO2 
(d) 
Explain the Prototyping method for building information systems? 
CO2 
Q2 
(Attempt any Two Parts)     UNIT-1 (CO1) 
(5,5) 
(a) 
Explain Information System and the different types of information systems with examples for 
each type? Explain the various components of information system? Use diagrams to answer 
each of these questions.  
(b) 
 Discuss how information systems impact organizations and business firms? Elaborate on the 
Economic impacts, organizational and behavioral impacts, impact of Internet on information 
systems? 
(c) 
Differentiate between DSS, MIS and EIS in a tabular form. Why are these important tools used 
by strategic users in businesses? Also give suitable examples where each of these tools is used 
for decision-making? 
Q3 
(Attempt any Two Parts)     UNIT-2 (CO2) 
(5,5) 
(a) 
Explain Cost-Feasibility Analysis in information systems? 
A company plans to invest in a new Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system to 
improve customer engagement and sales. The financial details are as follows: 
Initial Investment (Year 0): $600,000 
Annual Operational & Maintenance Costs: $70,000 per year 
Expected Annual Benefits (Increased Revenue & Cost Savings): $250,000 per year 
Project Lifespan: 5 years 
Discount Rate: 9% 
Calculate Net Present Value and Internal Rate of Return of the investment? 
(b) 
Explain each stage of the System Development Life Cycle in detail and the Life cycle of System 
Analysis & Design with the aid of relevant diagrams and illustrations? 
(c) 
Explain system, its characteristics and types of systems giving examples for each type. Explain 
role of the System Analyst and elaborate what skills he/she must possess?