(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name: BBA, Semester:5 
(December, 2024) 
 
Subject Code: AMC 105 
Subject: Computer Application in Management 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note:Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
 
a) What is an operating system? Mention two of its main functions. 
 
 
b) Differentiate between wired and wireless networking 
 
 
c) Name two AI-based applications and briefly explain their functions. 
 
 
d) Explain the concept Quantum Computing with an example. 
 
 
e) What is the role of antivirus software in maintaining IT security? 
 
 
f) Define encryption and decryption and explain their role in data security. 
 
 
g) What is Structured Query Language (SQL) 
 
 
h) What do you understand by the term NPV and IRR and how it is calculated in 
Excel 
 
UNIT I 
 
Q2 
Provide an overview of statistical and data analytics programming 
languages/software (e.g., SPSS, R, Python). Highlight their applications in data 
analysis. 
(10) 
Q3 
Explain the different classifications of computers (Supercomputers, Mainframes, 
Minicomputers, Workstations, Servers, Personal Computers, and Embedded 
Devices) with examples and their applications. 
(10) 
UNIT II 
 
Q4 
Explain the role of Internet of Things (IoT) in creating smarter systems. Provide 
examples to illustrate its applications. 
(10) 
Q5 
Describe the importance of Virtual Reality (VR) in modern industries. Provide 
examples of its applications in education, healthcare, and entertainment. 
(10) 
UNIT III 
 
Q6 
Describe Big Data Analytics and its role in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
Provide relevant examples of its applications. 
(10) 
Q7 
Discuss the role and importance of Management Information Systems (MIS) and 
Decision Support Systems (DSS) in business management. 
(10) 
UNIT IV 
 
Q8 
What is What-if Analysis in Excel? Discuss its tools, including Goal Seek, Scenario 
Manager, and Solver, with examples of their practical applications. 
(10) 
Q9 
Explain the use of Pivot Table Reports and Pivot Chart Reports in data 
summarization and visualization. Provide examples to illustrate their importance. 
(10)