(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name: B.TECH, Semester:8th 
(May, 2025) 
 
Subject Code: BAI 404 
Subject: Social Media Analytics 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
CO Mapping 
 
a) Briefly differentiate how small organizations and large organizations 
approach SMA 
 
CO1 
 
b) Give one basic measure used to quantify influence in a social 
network. 
 
CO1 
 
c) Name two common applications of Natural Language Processing 
(NLP) for micro-text analysis on social media. 
 
CO2 
 
d) What do you understand by influence maximization in a network? 
 
CO2 
 
e) In random graph models, what does the parameter “p” usually 
represent? 
 
CO3 
 
f) Give one example of how A/B testing might be used to improve a 
website’s performance. 
 
CO3 
 
g) What is influence maximization in the context of social media? 
 
CO4 
 
h) Define reach and engagement in the context of Facebook Analytics. 
 
CO4 
UNIT I 
 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
Suppose you have a small social network with five users. Each user has 
certain connections. 
 
Illustrate how you would represent this network using a graph 
and its corresponding adjacency matrix. 
 
Define any two basic measures (e.g., degree centrality, 
clustering coefficient) you would use to identify an influential 
user and justify your choice. 
(10) 
CO1, CO2 
Q3 
Discuss the need for Social Media Analytics in organizations, 
highlighting the differences in usage for small versus large 
organizations. Illustrate how SMA can be applied in two distinct areas 
(e.g., marketing, customer service, crisis management). 
(10) 
CO2 
UNIT II 
 
CO Mapping 
Q4 
You are given clickstream data of a website. Design a Python-based 
pseudocode or actual code to count the number of clicks per user 
session. Also explain how A/B testing can help optimize the user 
interface. 
(10) 
CO3 
Q5 
Every year, thousands of research papers are published worldwide. 
Suppose a researcher wants to work in a particular research area and 
explore some research papers in that domain. As millions of scientific 
papers are available in that domain, how will researchers select 
research papers? Use an appropriate network model and implement 
the above scenario. To implement the above behavior, consider that 
the maximum number of nodes in the network cannot exceed 10. 
Initially, a small network (m0) with 3 nodes is given, where each node 
is connected with the remaining nodes (the degree of each node is 2). 
Suppose a new node (researcher) wants to join the network with an 
incoming degree (m) of 2 (wants to read 2 papers). How will it choose 
the nodes to which it intends to connect? Please note that the final 
network will contain 10 nodes. 
(10) 
CO3, CO4 
UNIT III 
 
CO Mapping 
Q6 
A social campaign on Facebook reached 15,000 people and had an 
engagement rate of 6.5%. 
(i) Calculate the number of people who are engaged. 
(ii) If the goal was a 10% engagement rate, how many more people 
needed to engage? 
(iii) Suggest improvements to meet the campaign goal. 
(10) 
CO3 
Q7 
a. Describe any three key metrics provided by Facebook Insights (e.g., 
demographics, reach, engagement). Why are these metrics 
important for page administrators? 
b. Propose a strategy to measure and analyze a social media campaign 
on Facebook, from defining goals to evaluating outcomes. 
(10) 
CO3 
UNIT IV 
 
CO Mapping 
Q8 
Compare the efficacy of the Adamic-Adar Index, Jaccard Coefficient, 
Common Neighbors, and Preferential Attachment link prediction 
algorithms for the following network and determine the best 
performing among all considered algorithms. 
 
Actual Network                Network with removal of 3 links 
 
(10) 
CO4 
Q9 
Write a Python program that crawls Twitter data from Twitter now 
known as X. Write all steps and also demonstrate how to visualize 
hashtags using word clouds or bar charts. Also, mention the steps for 
exploring and analyzing such data. 
(10) 
CO3, CO4