(Please write your Enrollment Number) 
Enrollment No. 
 
 
MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
(Course Name: B. Tech.) (Semester:  8th) 
(March, 2025) OFF LINE mode 
 
Time : 1 ½Hours 
Maximum Marks : 30 
 
 
Q1 
(2.5*4) 
 
(a) Explain the purpose of nodes, ties, and influencers in social networks. 
 
UNIT-1 
CO1 
(b) Describe the function of graphs and matrices in interpreting social 
network data. Give instances of basic metrics used on persons and 
networks. 
 
UNIT-1 
(c) How does clickstream analysis help’s to understand user behavior on 
websites? Provide examples of metrics that are regularly examined 
using clickstream data. 
 
UNIT-2 
CO2 
(d) What is link analysis in the context of social media analytics, and how 
does it support in identifying links between entities in a network? 
 
UNIT-2 
Q2 (Attempt any Two Parts )     UNIT-1 (CO1) 
(5,5) 
(a) Identify future trends and improvements in Social Media Analytics.  
How do emerging technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning affect the 
development and implementation of SMA methodologies?  
(b) Describe the significance of information visualization techniques in SMA.  
How do visual representations like node-link diagrams and heatmaps help with analyzing 
and understanding of complex social media data? 
(c) How can Social Media Analytics (SMA) turn raw social media data into actionable 
insights? How does this method influence organizational decision-making? 
Q3 
 (Attempt any Two Parts )     UNIT-2 (CO2) 
(5,5) 
(a) Explain the importance of random graphs in modeling network evolution.  
How can random graphs help us understand the structure and dynamics of social 
networks over time? Provide real-world examples of the use of random graphs in social 
media analytics.  
(b) Discuss the use of online surveys in web analytics. How are online surveys planned, 
implemented, and analyzed to collect user input and insights?  
Give scenarios of how online surveys are used to improve website performance and 
usability.  
(c) Explain an overview of NLP techniques for micro-text analysis in social media analytics.  
How does NLP algorithms extract information from short-form text data, such as social 
media postings and comments? 
 
Note: Q. 1 is compulsory.  
Subject: Social Media Analytics
Subject Code: BAI-404