(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
(Course Name:  B.Arch.) (Semester: V SEM) 
(December 2024) OFFLINE mode 
 
Subject Code: BAP 311 
Subject: Building Services -III(HVAC) 
Time: 3 Hours 
Maximum Marks:60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from units I, II, III, and IV. Substantiate your 
answers with relevant sketches and diagrams.  
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
 
a) What does the Wall–to–Window Ratio (WWR) mean? 
 
 
b) How does the wall insulation affect the overall energy performance of the 
building? 
 
 
c) What is mechanical ventilation, and why is it necessary in modern buildings? 
 
 
d) How does an exhaust ventilation system improve IAQ in the building? 
 
 
e) Write four main components in the Airconditioning. 
 
 
f) In what type of climate air coolers are most effective?  
 
 
g) What is Demand Base Ventilation? 
 
 
h) What is solar-based Air conditioning? 
 
UNIT I 
 
Q2 
What is a psychometric chart? Explain various terms in a psychometric chart with 
a sketch.   
(10) 
Q3 
Explain the relationship between the building envelope and the air-conditioning 
system. 
(10) 
UNIT II 
 
Q4 
Explain the primary methods of air conditioning used in buildings. Additionally, 
highlight the differences between a Split Air Conditioner and a Central Air 
Conditioning System. 
(10) 
Q5 
How does Delhi's poor outdoor air quality affect indoor air cleanliness? What 
types of air filtration systems and equipment can help mitigate these effects and 
improve indoor air quality effectively? 
(10) 
UNIT III 
 
Q6 
What is an Air Handling Unit (AHU), and what role does it play in an HVAC 
system? List the main components of an AHU and briefly describe the function of 
each component. 
(10) 
Q7 
Discuss the challenges of incorporating duct systems with other building services, 
such as electrical conduits, plumbing, and fire suppression systems. 
(10) 
UNIT IV 
 
Q8 
Define direct evaporative cooling and indirect evaporative cooling. How do they 
differ in terms of process and application? 
(10) 
Q9 
Explain with a neat diagram how a vapour absorption refrigeration system 
operates using the water-ammonia pair. 
(10)