(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name:B.Tech, Semester:<> 
(December, 2024) 
(Reappear till 2023 batches) 
 
Subject Code: BAS 103 
Subject: Applied Physics-I 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(5*4=20) 
CO Mapping 
 
a) Differentiate between central and non-central forces with examples. 
 
CO 1 
 
b) A quartz crystal has an ordinary refractive index (𝑛𝑜) of 1.544 and an 
extraordinary refractive index (𝑛𝑒) of 1.553. Calculate the minimum 
thickness required for the crystal to act as a quarter-wave plate for light 
of wavelength 589 nm. 
 
CO 2 
 
c) Explain Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle. Show that an electron 
cannot be localized within the nucleus of an atom. 
 
CO 3 
 
d) In an optical fiber, the refractive index of the core is 𝑛1 = 1.48 and the 
refractive index of the cladding is 𝑛2 = 1.46. Calculate the numerical 
aperture and the acceptance angle (in degrees) for the fiber. Assume the 
light is propagating in air. 
 
CO 4 
UNIT I 
 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
a) Obtain the differential equation of motion for a damped Harmonic 
Oscillator. Discuss the solution of this equation for the underdamped, 
critically damped, and over damped cases.  
 
b) A mass-spring system with a damping coefficient 𝑏= 5kg/s, mass 𝑚=
2kg, and spring constant 𝑘= 50N/m is released from rest. Determine 
whether the system is underdamped, critically damped, or over-damped. 
(7,3) 
CO 1 
Q3 
a) Write down the differential equation of motion for a forced harmonic 
oscillator and obtain the expressions for its amplitude and phase in 
steady state. Explain the variation of amplitude of the oscillator with the 
frequency of applied periodic force? 
 
b) A system undergoing forced oscillation has a natural frequency of 5 
Hz and a damping constant of 0.2. If the quality factor of the system is 
25, calculate the relaxation time. 
(7,3) 
CO 1 
UNIT II 
 
CO Mapping 
Q4 
a) Derive an expression for intensity distribution on the screen due to 
Fraunhofer diffraction from a slit of width a. Also draw the diffraction 
pattern. 
 
b) A thin film of oil (refractive index 𝑛𝑜= 1.4) is spread on the surface of 
water (𝑛𝑤= 1.33) and is illuminated with monochromatic light of 
wavelength 𝜆= 500nm in air. Draw a neat ray diagram to show 
interference due to the thin film. If the thickness of the oil film is 𝑡= 100 
nm, determine whether constructive or destructive interference occurs 
in the reflected light. Discuss the effect of increasing the refractive index 
of the oil on the interference pattern. 
(5,5) 
CO 2 
Q5 
a) Derive an expression for the intensity distribution on the screen due 
to Fresnel diffraction from a straight edge. Explain the nature of the 
diffraction pattern in the shadow region. 
 
b) Differentiate between the following: 
     (i) Division of wavefront and Division of amplitude 
     (ii) Spatial and Temporal Coherence 
 
(6,4) 
CO 2 
UNIT III 
 
CO Mapping 
Q6 
A particle is confined in a one-dimensional infinite potential well of width 
L. Solve the time-independent Schrödinger equation to obtain the 
normalized wave function. Show that the allowed energy levels are 
discrete and derive the expression for the energy levels. 
 
(10) 
CO 3 
Q7 
a) State and explain the postulates of Quantum Mechanics. Discuss the 
concept of the wave function and its physical significance. What are the 
properties of wave function? 
 
b) An electron is accelerated through a potential difference of 150 V. 
Calculate its de Broglie wavelength. 
(6,4) 
CO 3 
UNIT IV 
 
CO Mapping 
Q8 
a) Explain the principle of operation of a LASER. With the help of relevant 
diagrams discuss the essential components of a LASER system, including 
the working of each component. 
 
b) Derive the relation between Einstein’s A and B coefficients and discuss 
their role in the processes of absorption, spontaneous emission, and 
stimulated emission. 
(5,5) 
CO 4 
Q9 
a) Describe the working of a He-Ne laser. Draw relevant energy level 
diagram to illustrate the transitions involved in the operation of the laser. 
 
b) Draw and explain the schematic of an optical fiber communication 
system. Discuss the roles of each component in the system. 
(5,5) 
CO 4