1 
 
(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
 
Reappear End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name: B.TECH : Sem: 2nd 
(May, 2025)  
Subject Code: BAS 104 
                                                                        Subject: Applied Physics II 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
Answer the following questions 
(5*4=20) 
CO Mapping 
(a) 
Determine the penetration depth of an electromagnetic wave in copper, 
given that the resistivity of copper, ­Ø£ī­ØÉČ­Øæł= 1.69 ├Ś 10ŌłÆ8 ’üŚ-m and 
frequency = 104MHz. 
 
CO1 
(b) 
For the circuit shown below calculate the current through the Zener 
diode for the given values of load resistance in this circuit for RLoad= 
1.5k’üŚ, 1k’üŚ, 910’üŚ, 780’üŚ. 
 
 
CO2 
(c) 
A rod placed in a frame of reference is moving with a velocity 0.6c in a 
direction parallel to its length. Calculate the percentage of contraction. 
 
CO3 
(d) 
Define the following sensor characteristics and give one practical 
example of each: 
1. Sensitivity 
2. Resolution 
3. Selectivity 
4. Dead band 
 
CO4 
UNIT I 
 
 
Q2 
(a) Describe the qualitative behavior of electromagnetic wave 
propagation in a conducting medium. What is the role of conductivity 
and how does it influence wave attenuation? 
 
(b) Define and explain displacement current. Why was it necessary to 
introduce it in AmpereŌĆÖs law? 
(5,5) 
CO1 
Q3 
(a)  State and explain the Poynting theorem. What is the significance of 
the Poynting vector in the context of energy transfer? 
 
(b) Using MaxwellŌĆÖs equations, show that electromagnetic waves are 
transverse in free space. 
(5,5) 
CO1 
UNIT II 
 
 
Q4 
(a) With the help of energy band diagrams, distinguish between n-type 
and p-type extrinsic semiconductors. Obtain the expression for the Fermi 
energy level for a p-type semiconductor. 
 
(b) Consider an n-type semiconductor where the Fermi level is 0.3 eV 
below the conduction band at room temperature (300 K). If the 
(7,3) 
CO2 
2 
 
temperature is raised to 770 K, what is the new position of the Fermi 
level? 
Q5 
(a) Discuss the Kronig-Penney model in detail. Using the model show the 
energy spectrum of electron consisting of a number of allowed energy 
bands separated by forbidden bands. 
 
(b) Three identical particles can be in any of five states. What are the 
number of possible ways of distributing them in various states according 
to Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics? 
(7,3) 
CO2 
UNIT III 
 
 
Q6 
(a) Derive a relation for velocity transformation in relativistic Physics. 
Show that the velocity of light is invariant under relativistic velocity 
transformation. 
 
(b) Half-life of a particle at rest is 15nanoseconds. What will be the half-
life when its speed is 0.8c?         
 
(7,3) 
CO3 
Q7 
(a) State and explain the fundamental (basic) postulates of special 
theory of relativity and derive Lorentz space time transformation 
equations on their basis. 
 
(b) In an inertial frame S, two lights (red and blue) are separated by a 
distance Ōłå­Øæź= 2.45 km, with the red light at the larger value of x. The 
blue light flashes and 5.35 microsecond later the red light flashes. 
Frame SŌĆÖ is moving in a direction of increasing x with speed of ­ØæŻ=
0.85­ØæÉ. What is the distance between the two flashes and the time 
between them as measured in SŌĆÖ? 
(5,5) 
CO3 
UNIT IV 
 
 
Q8 
(a) Design a simple light-based sensing circuit using an LDR. Explain how 
the resistance of the LDR varies with illumination and how that can be 
used to trigger a switching action. 
 
(b) Sketch a typical transfer function for a linear sensor and a non-linear 
sensor. Explain how linearity affects the accuracy and calibration of 
sensor systems. 
(5,5) 
CO4 
Q9 
(a) Derive BraggŌĆÖs law for X-ray diffraction. An X-ray of wavelength 
1.54├ģŌĆēis incident on a crystal with interplanar spacing 2.82 ├ģ. Calculate 
the angle of first-order diffraction. 
 
(b) Explain the process of X-ray production. Distinguish between 
characteristic and continuous X-ray spectra with the help of diagrams. 
(5,5) 
CO4