(Please write your Enrollment Number) 
Enrollment No._________________ 
 
End-Term Examination 
(Reappear Exam) 
(May, 2025) 
 
Subject Code: BEC 110 
Subject:  Basic Electrical Engineering 
Time : 3 Hours  
Maximum Marks : 60 
Note: Q. 1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV.  
 
Q1. 
Do Any Four 
(4*5=20) 
 
a. A delta load has 3 Ohms, 6 Ohms and 9 Ohms as branch resistances. Convert it into an 
equivalent star load. 
 
b. Determine the resonant frequency for  a series RLC circuit having R=100 ohm, L=100mH, 
and C=10 micro F . 
 
c. Draw the circuit representation of practical voltage and practical current source. 
 
d. What kind of damping is used in PMMC and MI instruments? Why damping is one of the 
essential requirement of measuring instruments? 
 
e. Explain how range of PMMC ammeter and voltmeter can be extended? 
 
f. What are the assumptions for ideal transformer? How the effect of eddy current and 
hysteresis may be minimized ? 
 
g. Derive the emf equation of DC shunt generator 
UNIT-I 
Q2. 
Find the current in 2 Ohm resistor using superposition theorem. 
 
 
(10) 
Q3. 
For what value of RL to be connected across the terminal a and b so that Maximum 
power transfer will take through it. Also obtain the value of Maximum Power 
transferred. 
 
(10) 
                                                                                         UNIT-II 
Q4. 
 Derive the expression of RMS and average value of a fully rectified sinusoidal varying 
voltage. Obtain the expression of Form Factor and Peak Factor. 
 
(10) 
Q5. 
A series circuit consists of a resistance of 10Ω, and inductance of 50mH and a variable 
capacitance in series across a 100V, 50Hz supply. Calculate- (i) The value of capacitance 
to produce resonance. (ii) current drawn by the circuit (iii) Voltage across the 
capacitance and inductance at resonance. (iv) Q-factor. (v) resonance frequency 
(10) 
UNIT-III 
Q6. 
Explain the construction and working of a electrodynamometer type of instrument with 
the help of a neat diagram. How it can be used as a wattmeter. 
(10) 
Q7. 
Explain the Two Wattmeter Method to measure the power in a 3 phase, three wire star 
or delta connected the balanced load. Derive the expression of power factor in terms of 
wattmeter readings. 
(10) 
                                                                                          UNIT-IV 
Q8. 
Draw and explain the phasor diagram of transformer at a lagging power factor. Derive 
the emf equation of transformer. 
(10) 
Q9. 
Derive the EMF equation of D.C. Generator. An 8 pole lap wound dc generator has 450 
armature turns. It operates at 0.02 wb flux per pole and runs at 1000 rpm at no load. 
Find the emf induced by it. 
(10)