1 
 
(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS) 
Course Name : B. Tech, Semester : 3 
(December, 2024) 
 
Subject Code: BIT 201 
Subject: DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(4*5=20) 
 
a) What is the purpose of the GROUP BY clause in a SQL query? Explain with an 
example. 
 
 
b) Discuss the significance of integrity constraints in DBMS with practical examples. 
 
 
(c ) Consider the table Emp. Write the SQL Commands to: 
 Double the salary of all the employees. 
 Add the Primary Key constraint to the Id Column of the Table 
       Emp 
Id           Name            Salary 
1              Ravi             20000 
2            Abdul            10000 
3            Sonal             25000 
 
 
d) If there exists a transitive functional dependency in a Relation, which normal form 
is violated? How, you can make this relation normal? Explain with the help of an 
example. 
 
 
e) Distinguish the Relational and Object Oriented Data Models. 
 
UNIT I 
 
Q2 
(a) Discuss the candidate key, primary key, super key, composite key, and alternate 
key with the help of suitable examples. 
(b) Distinguish between a file processing system and a database management 
system in brief. 
(5,5) 
Q3 
You have to develop a system to automate academic system of our University. The 
following information is provided to you: 
IGDTUW is running various UG/PG and PhD programs under different departments. 
Like, Department of IT is running BTech – IT (duration 4 years), AIML (4 years), 
MTech – IT (2 years), MCA (2 years) and PhD (3 years) programs with an approved 
intake for each of the Program. Every department is having full time and visiting 
faculty members for teaching different subjects in these programs. All the programs 
are having a fixed teaching scheme which has subject code, subject name and 
Lectures per Week for every subject. Every year, students are enrolled in these 
programs and are identified by their Enrolment Number. 
Design an ER Diagram for the above situation by clearly depicting Cardinality, 
Optionality, appropriate attribute categories, and extended ER features 
(specialization/generalization). 
Document all these points separately also for getting clear picture. 
(10) 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
UNIT II 
 
Q4 
(a) Consider the following relations: 
CUSTOMER (cid, cname, caddress) 
VEHICLE (v_no, vname, make, manuf_year, type) 
RENTAL(cid, v_no, from_address, to_address, tot_km, charges, date_journey) 
Write SQL Commands to: 
(i) Create the above mentioned three tables by applying appropriate constraints 
(Primary/Foreign Key). 
(ii) Delete Address column from CUSTOMER table. 
(iii) Display all customer names, who have not rented any vehicle so far. 
(iv) Display all those customer names who travelled from IGDTUW on 18th June, 
2024. 
(v) Display customer names, the vehicle names which they hired along with date of 
journey for all the customers in the year 2024. 
(10) 
Q5 
Consider the Tables given in the Question 4 and write the Relational Algebraic 
Expression for the following queries: 
(i) Display all vehicle numbers, which have not been rented so far. 
(ii) Display all those customer names who travelled in MARUTI SWIFT on 18th June, 
2024. 
(iii) Display all vehicle names and year of manufacturing which have travelled more 
than 1000 km. 
(iv) Display the customer names who are staying in Noida. 
(v) Display all the vehicle names which have been hired by Mr Ramesh. 
(10) 
UNIT III 
 
Q6 
(a) Why normalization is required in database design? Discuss the 3rd Normal 
Form with the help of a suitable example.  
(b) Consider a relation scheme R = (A, B, C, D, E, H) on which the following functional 
dependencies hold: {A–>B, BC–>D, E–>C,  
D–>A}. 
Write the candidate keys and possible primary Key of R? 
(5,5) 
Q7 
Draw the State Diagram of the Transaction Management and explain it. Discuss the 
Serializability concept with the help of example. Comment on Isolation property of 
Transaction with reference to serialibility. 
(10) 
UNIT IV 
 
Q8 
(a) Discuss Two Phase Locking protocol. What benefits does strict two-phase locking 
protocol provides? Discuss its disadvantages. 
(b) Depict one hypothetical situation which causes Deadlock in database by 
considering three transactions. Draw an appropriate diagram showing deadlock. 
Discuss one algorithm for prevention from deadlock. 
(4,6) 
Q9 
(a) Suppose you have to store the personal details of the customers along with their 
audio clip. Which database system you will prefer and why? 
(b) Discuss the salient features of Distributed Database Management System.  
Discuss the concept of fragmentation. 
(5,5)