(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
(Course Name: B. Tech.) (Semester:  4) 
(March 2025) OFF LINE mode 
 
Subject Code: BMA 208 
Subject: Thermal Engineering - II 
Time : 1 ½Hours 
Maximum Marks :30 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt any two parts of Q2 and Q3  
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*4=10) 
CO Mapping 
 
a) A two-stage reciprocating air compressor with intercooling and 
without clearance takes in atmospheric air at 1 bar pressure and 
delivers it at 30 bar pressure. The intercooling is perfect. 
Determine the value of intermediate pressure at which 
intercooling is taking place. 
 
CO1 
 
b) What are the functions of: (i) Impeller, and (ii) Diffuser in a 
centrifugal air compressor? 
 
CO1 
 
c) Give two most important reasons for choosing Cast Iron as 
material for the piston of an IC Engine. 
 
CO2 
 
d) The crankshaft of a 4-stroke SI Engine is rotating at 3000 rpm. 
What is the speed of rotation of its cam shaft? Give proper reason 
for your answer.  
 
CO2 
UNIT I 
 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
Attempt any two parts 
(5*2=10) 
 
 
a) Draw the indicator diagram for a single stage reciprocating air 
compressor without clearance and derive the expression for net 
work done per kg of air per cycle with isothermal compression.  
 
CO1 
 
b). Give reasons for the following: (i) The thermal efficiency of a CI 
engine is higher than that of an SI engine. Why? (ii) The specific 
fuel consumption of a 2-stroke SI Engine is higher than that of a 4-
stroke SI engine for the same power developed. Why? (ii) A 2-
stroke engine can be made to rotate in opposite direction. How? 
 
CO2 
 
c) Draw a neat diagram of rocker arm mechanism for operating 
valves of an IC Engine and name different parts of the mechanism. 
How is sodium used for cooling exhaust valve of a large output 
engine? 
 
CO2 
UNIT II 
 
CO Mapping 
Q3 
Attempt any two parts 
(5*2=10) 
 
 
a) Draw the inlet and outlet velocity diagrams for the impeller of a 
centrifugal compressor with vanes curved backward considering 
axial inlet of air and list out various velocities and angles involved 
in the diagrams. Derive the expression for power input to the 
impeller of such a compressor. 
 
CO1 
 
b) Draw the valve timing diagram for a four-stroke SI engine and 
explain it. 
 
CO2 
 
c) Why is isothermal compression preferred in a reciprocating air 
compressor? Explain with the help of p-V diagram. What are the 
various methods for achieving isothermal compression in a 
reciprocating air compressor?  
 
CO1