(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name:<BBA>, Semester:<5> 
(December, 2024) 
 
Subject Code: BMS 317 
Subject: Advertising and Brand Management 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
 
a) What are the key components of AIDA model? Explain each of them in brief. 
 
 
b) What do you mean by advertising spiral? 
 
 
c) Distinguish between central and peripheral routes in advertising. 
 
 
d) What do you mean by brand personality? 
 
 
e) What do you mean by media planning? What is its primary objective in advertising? 
 
 
f) Define “all you can afford” method. When is it used? 
 
 
g) What is a brand, and how is it different from a product? 
 
 
h) What do you mean by brand positioning? Briefly explain its significance in brand 
management. 
 
UNIT I 
 
Q2 
Define advertising and explain its importance in the modern business landscape. How 
has the role of advertising evolved with advancements in technology and consumer 
behavior? 
(10) 
Q3 
What is the Innovation Adoption Model? How can this model help marketers design 
advertising campaigns to address different stages of consumer adoption of a new 
product or technology? 
(10) 
UNIT II 
 
Q4 
Examine creative strategies in advertising, including brand image, USP, entertainment, 
and message design strategy. How do these strategies enhance the effectiveness of a 
campaign? 
(10) 
Q5 
Define sales promotion. Explain the significance of sales promotion in marketing mix. 
How does sales promotion complement other promotional tools like advertising and 
personal selling? Give examples to support your answer. 
(10) 
UNIT III 
 
Q6 
Differentiate between broadcasting and non-broadcasting media. Evaluate their 
advantages and disadvantages for different types of advertising campaigns, 
illustrating using examples.   
(10) 
Q7 
Discuss the meaning, benefits and limitations of various scheduling strategies such as 
flighting, pulsing and continuous. Also, discuss how these strategies can be integrated 
for a multi-platform campaign? 
(10) 
UNIT IV 
 
Q8 
Describe Aaker Model of Brand Identity.  Also provide an explanation of Brand Loyalty  
and its measures.  Give examples to support your answer. 
(10) 
Q9 
‘Brand equity is often referred to as the most valuable intangible asset of the 
company’. In the light of this statement, discuss, what is brand equity and how it is 
created, measured and leveraged? 
(10)