(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS) (SUBJECTIVE TYPE) (Off Line) 
Course Name: BBA, Semester: 2 
(May, 2025) 
 
Subject Code: BMS 102 
Subject: Organizational Behavior 
Time: 3 Hours 
Maximum Marks: 60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
CO Mapping 
 
a) Explain the Mintzberg’s 10 managerial roles and which of the roles do you 
think are difficult to perform and why? 
CO1 
 
b) Explain the Myers and Briggs Indicator test of Personality and do you believe 
that companies should rely on it to hire employees? 
CO1 
 
c) Visualize a least effective leader you know. Identify the traits, motives, and 
the personal characteristics that might be deficient in that person. 
CO2 
 
d) Despite good pay and flexible hours, employees at a design firm report 
dissatisfaction and burnout. Using Herzberg’s theory, identify what might be 
missing and recommend solutions. 
CO2 
 
e) Write a short note on transactional analysis as a tool to assess interpersonal 
relationships. 
CO3 
 
f) List the types of conflict and identify the sources of conflict. 
CO3 
 
g) Write a short note on Kurt Lewin’s model of organizational change. 
CO4 
 
h) Explain any two interventions for organizational development. 
CO4 
UNIT I 
 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
Explain how each dimension of the Big Five personality traits can 
influence performance in a sales role. What are the ethical 
considerations of using personality tests in recruitment? 
(10) 
CO1 
Q3 
Discuss how stereotyping, attribution, projection, the halo, false-
consensus, primacy, and recency effects influence the perceptual 
process. 
(10) 
CO1 
UNIT II 
 
CO Mapping 
Q4 
Two team members with similar output receive different 
recognition. One is demotivated and starts reducing effort. How 
does Equity Theory explain this reaction, and what would you do 
as their manager? 
(10) 
CO2 
Q5 
Compare managerial leadership with transformational leadership, 
and describe the features of task-oriented, people-oriented, and 
servant leadership. 
(10) 
CO2 
UNIT III 
 
CO Mapping 
Q6 
Sometimes, the desire to maintain group harmony overrides the 
importance of making sound decisions. When that occurs in a 
team, its members are said to engage in groupthink. Here is an 
example. 
A civilian worker at a large air force base recalls a time when 
groupthink overcame her team’s decision-making ability. She was 
a member of a process-improvement team that an air force 
general had formed to develop a better way to handle the base’s 
mail, which included important letters from high-ranking military 
(10) 
CO3 
individuals. The team was composed mostly of civilians, and it took 
almost a month to come up with a plan. The problem: the plan was 
not a process improvement. “I was horrified,” the civilian worker 
remarked. “What used to be 8 steps was now 19.” 
The team had devised a system that resulted in each piece of mail 
being read by several middle managers before reaching its 
intended recipient. The new plan slowed down the mail 
considerably, with an average delay of two weeks. 
Though the team members all knew that the new system was 
worse than its predecessor, no one wanted to disrupt the team’s 
solidarity. The problems lasted almost an entire year. It wasn’t 
until the general who formed the team complained about the mail 
that the system was changed. 
This may seem like a trivial matter, but groupthink is found at the 
lowest to the highest levels of organizations, governments, and 
industries. For example, groupthink has been cited as contributing 
to the 2008 global financial crisis, the Challenger space shuttle 
disaster, the collapse of the Swiss airline Swissair, and the Enron 
scandal. 
 
1. What are some of the factors that led to group-think in the 
case described here? 
2. What can teams do to help avoid groupthink from 
occurring? 
3. The group in the case was composed of air force and 
civilian personnel. Do you think there may have been a 
perceived difference in status that could have contributed 
to the groupthink? 
Q7 
1. What are the similarities and differences among the five 
bases of power? 
2. What power or influence tactics and their contingencies 
are identified most often? 
(10) 
CO3 
UNIT IV 
 
CO Mapping 
Q8 
1. Identify the different forms of resistance and explain the 
reasons why individuals resist change. 
2. Is most organization change forced on the organization by 
external factors or fostered from within? Explain. 
(10) 
CO4 
Q9 
An IT company, Infotech Co., faced high attrition and low morale 
after a major restructuring. Rather than focusing on problems, the 
HR Director decided to implement Appreciative Inquiry (AI) to 
rediscover the organization’s strengths. They conducted a series 
of workshops where employees shared stories of peak 
performance, collaboration, and innovation. The insights led to a 
new vision focused on inclusivity, innovation, and agility. 
 
Critically analyze the choice of Appreciative Inquiry in this 
scenario. What are the advantages and potential limitations of 
using AI over traditional problem-solving approaches in post-
restructuring settings? Suggest how the "4D Model" of AI could be 
strategically applied in this context. 
(10) 
CO4