(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
(Course Name: BBA) (Semester: II) 
March 2025 OFF LINE mode 
 
Subject Code: BMS 102 
Subject: Organizational Behavior 
Time: 1 ½Hours 
Maximum Marks: 30 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt any two parts of Q2 and Q3  
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*4=10) 
CO Mapping 
 
a) What are the differences between person-job fit and person-organization 
fit?  
CO 1 
 
b) Differentiate between halo effect, selective perception, and projection with 
examples relevant to organizations. 
CO 1 
 
c) How do you evaluate yourself in terms of your needs for achievement, 
affiliation, and power? 
CO 2 
 
d) Define ‘leadership’ and contrast it with ‘management’. 
CO 2 
UNIT I 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
Attempt any two parts 
(5*2=10) 
 
 
a) How does the situation or environment affect the degree to which 
personality predicts behavior? 
CO 1 
 
b) Explain the operant conditioning theory and social learning theory, and 
discuss the relevance and application of these theories in an organization. 
CO 1 
 
c) What are the factors affecting the process of perceptual selection? Discuss 
with examples. 
CO 1 
UNIT II 
CO Mapping 
Q3 
Attempt any two parts 
(5*2=10) 
 
 
a) What are the three key variables in expectancy theory? Discuss with the help 
of an example how these three variables get operationalized to develop 
motivation among individuals. 
CO 2 
 
b) Innocent Drinks is a London-based company operating in the beverages 
industry worldwide. The business ideas was conceived in 1998 by three 
Cambridge University graduates, and the company made its debut in 1999. 
The three friends led the business idea by having a clear vision, and they took 
personal risks to achieve it. Their goal was to produce 100-percent natural 
smoothies that “do good”. The uniqueness of the company’s products and 
the unique leadership style combining visionary and charismatic elements 
became the brand’s selling point. With an inspirational and ethical leadership 
stance, a business approach that emphasized social responsibility and ethical 
sources, an employee-led innovation culture, and its stated purpose of “doing 
good”. Innocent established a reputation and became successful in the 
market. Since 2014, Innocent has thrived in 15 European countries. 
CO 2 
Notwithstanding this success, Innocent recorded losses in 2007 due to the 
economic downturn, and in 2009 they announced plans to sell 10 percent of 
the company to Coca-Cola. Following this announcement, Innocent 
experienced a fall in their Ethiscore from 12.5 to 6.5. Since 2013, Coca-Cola 
Company has come to hold over 90 percent of Innocent Drinks, leaving very 
little scope for the former leadership of the company to lead the future of 
Innocent Drinks. Despite the positive strategic implications for global 
expansion and product development (including the launch of its coconut 
water products and Innocent Bubble in 2015), debates have raged over the 
trustworthiness and the authenticity of the current leadership, leading to a 
simple question about the brand: can we still trust its innocence?   
 
1) In what ways are Innocent’ charismatic, transformational, and 
transactional elements of leadership now at stake? 
2) What is ethical leadership, and how could ethical leadership be evidenced 
in the case of Innocent Drinks? 
 
c) What are the contingency theories of leadership? Explain in detail any 2 
contingency theories. 
CO 2