1 
 
(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS) (SUBJECTIVE TYPE) (Off Line) 
Course Name: MBA, Semester: 4 
(May, 2025) 
 
Subject Code: BMS 324 
Subject: Performance and Compensation Management 
Time: 3 Hours 
Maximum Marks: 60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
CO Mapping 
 
a) Explain the linkage of performance management with other human resource 
functions. 
CO1 
 
b) “A meaningful performance appraisal is a two-way process that benefits both 
the employee and the manager.” Discuss 
CO1 
 
c) Write a short note on Balanced Scorecard as a tool for conducting 
performance management. 
CO2 
 
d) Write a short note on new trends in performance linked pay/reward systems. 
CO2 
 
e) Discuss two types of group incentive plans and company-wide incentive 
plans. 
CO3 
 
f) Discuss the concept of total compensation/reward. Also, distinguish between 
extrinsic and intrinsic rewards, quoting suitable examples. 
CO3 
 
g) Discuss the role of labor unions in setting compensation. 
CO4 
 
h) Enlist the concept and meaning of expatriate compensation and also the 
constituents of expatriate compensation. 
CO4 
UNIT I 
 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
Discuss the psychological and organizational factors that make 
performance feedback and counselling more effective in a 
performance management system. 
(10) 
CO1 
Q3 
Companies use performance management systems to evaluate 
employees’ efficiency at work and ability to perform certain tasks, 
either by automated or human processes. 
If you are the HR manager of your organization then how you will 
develop an effective performance management system for your 
organization. Develop the stages and outline the expected results 
at each stage. 
(10) 
CO1 
UNIT II 
 
CO Mapping 
Q4 
Compare and contrast the effectiveness of monetary versus non-
monetary rewards in reinforcing behaviors aligned with high 
performance. 
(10) 
CO2 
Q5 
Evaluate the advantages and limitations of using technology and 
electronic Performance Management Systems (e-PMS) for 
performance appraisal in a hybrid work environment. 
(10) 
CO2 
UNIT III 
 
CO Mapping 
Q6 
Jack Hopson has been making wood furniture for more than 10 
years. He recently joined Metropolitan Furniture and has some 
ideas for Sally Boston, the company’s CEO. Jack likes working for 
Sally because she is very open to employee suggestions and is 
(10) 
CO3 
2 
 
serious about making the company a success. Metropolitan is 
currently paying Jack a competitive hourly pay rate for him to build 
various designs of tables and chairs. However, Jack thinks that an 
incentive pay plan might convince him and his coworkers to put 
forth more effort. 
At Jack’s previous employer, a competing furniture maker, Jack 
was paid on a piece-rate pay plan. The company paid Jack a 
designated payment for every chair or table that he completed. 
Jack felt this plan provided him an incentive to work harder to 
build the furniture pieces. Sally likes Jack’s idea; however, Sally is 
concerned about how such a plan would affect the employees’ 
need to work together as a team. 
While the workers at Metropolitan build most furniture pieces 
individually, they often need to pitch in and work as a team. Each 
worker receives individual assignments, but as a delivery date 
approaches for a preordered furniture set due to a customer, the 
workers must help each other complete certain pieces of the set 
to ensure on-time delivery. A reputation for on-time delivery 
differentiates Metropolitan from its competitors. 
Several companies that compete against Metropolitan have a 
reputation of late deliveries, which gives Metropolitan a 
competitive edge. Because their promise of on-time delivery is 
such a high priority, Sally is concerned that a piece-rate pay plan 
may prevent employees from working together to complete 
furniture sets. 
Sally agrees with Jack that an incentive pay plan would help boost 
productivity, but she thinks that a team-based incentive pay plan 
may be a better approach. She has considered offering a team-
based plan that provides a bonus payment when each set of 
furniture is completed in time for scheduled delivery. 
However, after hearing from Jack about the success of the piece 
rate pay plan at his previous employer, she is unsure of which path 
to take. 
 
1. What are some advantages of offering a piece-rate pay plan to 
the furniture builders at Metropolitan Furniture? 
2. What are some advantages of offering a team-based incentive 
pay plan? 
3. What do you think Sally should do? 
Q7 
How the compensation of different groups such as supervisors, 
corporate directors and CEO are determined and managed? 
(10) 
CO3 
UNIT IV 
 
CO Mapping 
Q8 
For Asia (India and Japan), summarize key facts about wage and 
salary, paid time-off benefits, security and protection programs. 
(10) 
CO4 
Q9 
Mr. A. K. Sharma, after doing his master's in business 
administration (marketing) from IIM, Bangalore, started a start-up 
at Mumbai. He has also a bachelor's degree in mechanical 
engineering from IIT, Kharagpur. Over a period of five years, his 
start-up made tremendous progress and he started expanding his 
business outside India in respect of trade. For exporting its trade 
outside India, his company established an office in China. To meet 
(10) 
CO4 
3 
 
human requirements for its China office, there was a requirement 
of only a few expatriates. It is known as the export stage. Later on, 
the home-country company (i.e., Mr Sharma’s company) started 
its manufacturing process overseas for which he needed some 
technology resources outside the home country (India)—thus the 
company became an MNC. Such a stage is known as the 
international stage. Here, determining the compensation becomes 
more complex. The company grew further and started moving to 
more and more host countries. It, therefore, started reflecting the 
features of a TNC. By and by, his corporation started losing its 
connection to political and geographical boundaries, it became 
meaningless to any specific country and, hence, started reflecting 
the features of global organization. At this stage, there develops a 
need for an advanced integrated type of compensation. 
 
About a few months back, the home-country corporation 
transferred one employee from its foreign subsidiary located in 
China to another foreign subsidiary located in the United States 
without effecting any change in his remuneration. The employee 
started feeling disturbed both economically and culturally. It was 
due to the fact that the principle of equalization was not followed 
in respect of his remuneration. His remuneration should have 
been changed based on the principle of ‘host-country 
equalization’. His remuneration was not made equal to what 
another person doing the same type of assignment in the United 
States was getting. First, his basic pay was not increased 
substantially as the salaries in the United States are very high. His 
variable pay and bonus were also not revised to what are 
prevalent in the United States. His allowances were also not 
revised so as to have some synchronization with the allowance 
paid in the United States. No adjustment with regard to taxes was 
made, though tax rates in the United States are comparatively 
higher as compared to China. In the case of benefits too, no change 
was affected. Benefits available for foreign assignments in the 
United States are different than what is available in China. Hence, 
economic disturbances were bound to happen in the case of the 
employee transferred from China to the United States. The work 
performance of the employee transferred to foreign subsidiary 
located in the United States was adversely affected and, therefore, 
the United States located foreign subsidiary refused the case in 
question to headquarters located in Mumbai (India) for necessary 
pay review. 
 
1. What are the stages of Mr. Sharma’s start-up had to pass 
through before it became a global corporation? Discuss 
the features of each stage. 
2. Why did the work performance of the employee 
transferred from a foreign subsidiary located in China to 
the one located in the United States decline? What went 
wrong? Identify the factors responsible for this.