(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
         MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
(Course Name:  BBA) (Semester:  Sixth ) 
(March 2025) OFF LINE mode 
 
Subject Code: BMS 322 
Subject: International Marketing 
Time : 1 ½Hours 
Maximum Marks :30 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt any two parts of Q2 and Q3  
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*4=10) 
CO Mapping 
 
a)  Concept of International Marketing 
 
CO1  
 
b) Environmental Scanning 
 
CO1 
 
c) Three  components of international economic environment 
 
CO2 
 
d) Types of registration for a company 
 
CO2 
UNIT I 
 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
Attempt any two parts 
(5*2=10) 
 
 
a) Differentiate Domestic marketing VS international marketing. 
 
CO1 
 
b) Analyze the various elements of International marketing Framework 
 
CO1 
 
c) KFC, a fast - food operator, faced immense resistance from some 
politically active consumer groups when it opened its operations in India. 
One group proclaimed that opening KFC outlets in the country would 
propagate a "junk-food" culture. Others proclaimed that this way " the 
return of imperialistic powers" and was an attempt to "Westernize the 
eating habits" of Indians Overzealous local authorities in the city of 
Bangalore used a city law restricting the use of MSG (a food additive used 
in he chicken served by KFC) over a certain amount as a pretext for 
temporarily closing down the outlet, despite the fact that the authorities 
did not even have the equipment to measure the MSG content in the 
proportions stated in law. In the capacity city of New Delhi a KFC outlet 
was temporarily closed down because the food inspector found a 
"house-fly" in the restaurant. Both of these issues got resolved through 
hectic consultations with these consumer groups and through legal 
orders issued protecting the interests of the outlets.  
(a) In view of the above situation, critically examine he impact of social 
and political environment on a firm's operation in international markers.  
(b) After completion of your MBA , suppose you have been appointed 
Country Manager (Indian Operations) in KFC, what steps would you take 
to cope up with the situation? 
 
CO1 
UNIT II 
 
CO Mapping 
Q3 
Attempt any two parts 
(5*2=10) 
 
 
a)  Outline the latest EXIM policy (2023  EXIM policy) of India. 
 
CO2 
 
b) Write a detail  note on export documentation process involved in 
exporting. 
 
CO2 
 
c) Define direct exporting and mention its advantages and 
disadvantages. 
 
CO2