(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
 
Supplementary Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name:< B.Tech.(CSE-AI)>, Semester:<VIII> 
(May, 2025) 
 
Subject Code: HMC 402 
Subject: Creativity Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
Note:Q. 1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
 
a) Define the term innovation. What are the major categories of innovation typically seen 
in the tech industry? 
 
b) Mention a modern technique used to boost creativity in AI-based projects. How does 
this differ from traditional problem-solving approaches? 
 
c) Briefly describe a structured framework used for creative problem-solving in AI 
applications. 
 
d) Name two key ethical principles in AI development. How do they contribute to reducing 
bias and promoting transparency? 
 
e) How can AI innovation be protected theory patents and copyrights? 
 
f) What is the role of AI for social good initiatives? 
 
g) Describe the Lean Startup methodology. How is it particularly useful for AI-focused 
entrepreneurs? 
 
h) Why is market validation essential during the early phases of an AI startup? 
 
 
UNIT-I 
Q2 
Describe three practical methods for enhancing creativity within AI projects. 
Illustrate each method with an example from real-world AI development. 
(10) 
Q3 
How does brainstorming contribute to ideation in AI-based business ventures? 
Suggest three techniques to conduct effective brainstorming sessions aimed at 
generating innovative AI startup ideas. 
(10) 
UNIT-II 
Q4 
What is the core ethical principles guiding responsible AI development? Discuss how 
they help reduce bias and support fairness, including examples from real AI projects. 
(10) 
Q5 
What is AI bias, and why is it a major concern in automated decision-making? 
Present two methods to address and reduce algorithmic bias and assess their 
effectiveness. 
(10) 
UNIT-III 
Q6 
Explain how the innovation process in AI differs from traditional innovation 
approaches. Discuss the role of Licensing & IPR. 
(10) 
Q7 
Discuss the role of responsible AI development and deployment. 
(10) 
UNIT-IV 
Q8 
Highlight the essential components of entrepreneurship in the AI sector. In what 
ways does identifying opportunities in AI differ from traditional markets? 
(10) 
Q9 
Examine the unique challenges faced by AI startups during development and scaling. 
Propose actionable strategies to manage these obstacles and ensure sustainable 
growth. 
(10)