(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
 
End Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name:<B.Tech>, Semester:<1st> 
(August- December 2024) 
 
Subject Code: HMC 101 
Subject: Communication Skills 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
Note:Q. 1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
Q1 
Write Notes on the Following: 
(5*4=20) 
 
(a) 
Applying 7Cs in writing a formal email to a colleague. 
 
(b) 
Brief overview of Proxemics and Chronemics, including relevant examples to 
illustrate each concept. 
 
(c) 
Points to keep in mind while delivering a presentation 
 
(d) 
Difference between Formal and Informal Writing 
UNIT-I 
Q2 
Define interpersonal and intrapersonal barriers. What strategies can help 
overcome intrapersonal barriers, and how do these differ from strategies for 
addressing interpersonal barriers? 
(10) 
Q3 
In what ways can insensitive language contribute to ethical breaches in 
digital communication (e.g., social media, emails)? Discuss how the principles 
of ethical communication can be applied to promote language sensitivity in 
online interactions. 
(10) 
UNIT-II 
Q4 
Discuss the importance of listening skills in effective communication. What 
are the common barriers to active listening, and how can someone overcome 
them? Provide examples to support your answers. 
(10) 
Q5 
Discuss the importance of telephone etiquette in maintaining professional 
communication. Provide examples of good and bad telephone etiquette to 
support your answer. 
(10) 
UNIT-III 
Q6 
Imagine you are applying for the Junior Software Developer position at 
TechNext Innovations Pvt. Ltd., a leading IT company looking for candidates 
with strong problem-solving skills, proficiency in Java and Python, and the 
ability to work well in teams. 
 
Draft and enclose a professional resume and write a formal cover letter 
addressed to Mr. Anil Sharma, the hiring manager, highlighting your relevant 
skills, experience, and enthusiasm for the role. 
(10) 
Q7 
Discuss the essential strategies for succeeding in a GD. What do you think are 
the common reasons because of which candidates fail to make an impact in 
Group Discussions and how can one overcome these challenges? 
(10) 
UNIT-IV 
Q8 
Imagine you are a purchase officer at IGDTUW, Delhi, and you need to write a 
Letter of enquiry to Samsung India regarding the availability, pricing, discount 
and features of smart TVs suitable for educational purposes at your institution. 
Write this letter keeping all key points in mind to ensure your letter is clear, 
professional, and covers all necessary details? 
 
(10) 
Q9 
Write 4 paragraphs of 5 sentences each on the topic How Cinema Impacts 
the Youth keeping in mind the nuances of effective Paragraph writing. 
Underline the topic and conclusion sentences. 
(10)