(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name:<MCA>, Semester:<02> 
(May, 2025) 
 
Subject Code: MCA 106 
Subject: Software Engineering 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
Attempt any five Parts 
20 
 
 
a) What is the difference between a Software Process and a Software Lifecycle 
Model? 
4 
CO1 
 
b) A client insists on a fixed budget and timeline but has evolving requirements. 
Which development model would you recommend and why? 
4 
CO2 
 
c) A mobile app suffers from performance issues on older devices. How could 
non-functional requirements have prevented this? 
4 
CO2 
 
d) Differentiate between basics, intermediation & detailed COCOCMO Model. 
4 
CO2 
 
e) Briefly describe Exploratory Testing. What are its benefits? 
4 
CO3 
 
f) A software system was developed at a cost of ₹40 lakh. The software is 
expected to remain operational for 10 years. The average Annual Change 
Traffic (ACT) is estimated to be 20%. Estimate the total maintenance cost over 
the software's lifetime   
4 
CO4 
UNIT I 
 
 
Q2 
Why is the study of Software Engineering essential in modern computing? Discuss in 
terms of complexity, scalability, and cost-effectiveness. 
(10) 
 
CO1 
Q3 
A large software project is expected to span 2 years, involves 15 distributed teams, 
and has loosely defined requirements. Which process model is best suited? Justify. 
(10) 
CO1 
UNIT II 
 
 
Q4 
Explain the steps involved in the Requirements Engineering process. How do these 
steps contribute to the success of a software project? 
(10) 
 
CO2 
Q5 
Read the following case description 
M/s Poornima Broker & Builders is a real estate company dealing with leasing the 
houses on rent.  Their Real Estate Information System provide assistance to the   
agents as they sell houses. Interested Sellers/owners of the property contact the 
agency and an agent is assigned to help the seller to complete a Sales Request Form. 
Information about the house and lot taken from that form is stored on a computer 
file. Personal information about the sellers is copied by the agent onto a Sellers 
Personal Info Sheet and stored in a file. When a buyer contacts the agency, he/she 
fills out a buyer request form. On regular basis, the agency sends prospective buyers 
a home-on-sale magazine containing the addresses. Periodically, the agent will find a 
particular house that satisfies most or all of a specific buyer’s requirements, as 
indicated in the buyers requirement  form distributed weekly to all agent. The agent 
occasionally photocopy a picture of the house along with vital data and send   MLS 
Sheet to the potential buyer. When the buyer selects a house, he or she fills out a 
purchase agreement that is forwarded through the real estate agency to the seller, 
who responds with an offer acceptance or gives counteroffer After a purchase 
agreement has been accepted, the agency sends an appraisal report to an appraiser, 
who appraises the value of the house and lot. The agency also notifies its finance 
company with a finance request form 
 
(i)  Draw the Context Level DFD 
 
(ii) Draw First Level DFD 
(4,6) 
CO2 
UNIT III 
 
 
Q6 
i).  Draw the Structured Chart for the following description. 
The update file gets the valid transactions and update the file. Update file 
module update the master file then Update master file calls put new master 
(5,5) 
CO3 
that format the master, write to the master and checks if user wants to 
continue.  
ii). Consider the following code segment 
1.  i = 0 
2. while (i < 10): 
3.     if (i % 2 == 0): 
4.         print("Even") 
5.     else: 
6.         print("Odd") 
7.     i += 1 
8. print("Done") 
a. 
Draw the Control Flow Graph 
b. 
Calculate the Cyclomatic Complexity 
c. 
List the independent path 
Q7 
Explain the concept of Service-Oriented Architecture in Software Design. Discuss its 
Key Principles, benefits and challenges. Illustrate how SOA promotes loose coupling 
and reusability with the help of a suitable example or diagram 
(10) 
 
UNIT IV 
 
 
Q8 
Discuss the role of software project planning in ensuring successful software 
development. Explain the key components of a software Project Planning. How does 
modern estimation techniques like FPA and COCOMO improve the accuracy of 
planning? 
(10) 
CO4 
Q9 
(i) Let's assume that a project has 100,000 lines of code. The cost drivers for the 
project are as follows: 
 
Reliability: 1.1 
 
Personnel Experience: 1.2 
 
Complexity: 1.3 
Estimate the effort for this project using Intermediate COCOMO 
 
(ii) Consider a project with the following parameters. 
i) 
External Inputs 
 
a) 10 with low complexity 
 
b) 15 with average complexity 
 
c) 17 with high complexity 
ii) External outputs: 
 
a) 6 with low complexity 
 
b) 13 with high complexity 
iii) External inquiries: 
 
a) 3 with low complexity 
 
b) 4 with average complexity 
 
c) 2 with high complexity 
iv) Internal logical files: 
 
a) 2 with average complexity 
 
b) 1 with high complexity 
v) External Interface files 
 
a) 9 with low complexity 
In addition to above, system required 
• 
Significant data communication 
• 
Performance is very critical 
• 
Designed code may be moderately reusable 
• 
System is not designed for multiple installations in different organizations. 
Other complexity adjustment factors are treated as average. Compute the function 
points for the project 
(5,5) 
CO4