(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
(Course Name: MCA.) (Semester: 02) 
(March 2025) OFF LINE mode 
 
Subject Code: MCA 106 
Subject:  Software Engineering 
Time : 1 ½Hours 
Maximum Marks :30 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt any two parts of Q2 and Q3  
Important Instructions 
i). All Questions are compulsory. Start each question from fresh page. 
ii). Your work will be assessed based on :(i) Clarity and Coherence (ii)  Argument Strength  (iii) 
Grammar and Mechanics 
iii). Write in a Compact & Readable Handwriting and avoid unnecessarily large letters or spacing. 
iv). Use Both Sides of the Page.  Do not leave excessive space between answers, unless required 
for clarity. 
Q1 
Attempt any two Parts 
5* 2=10 
CO 
Mapping 
 
a) The role of computer software has undergone significant change 
over the last half century. Enumerate the concerns that led to the 
adoption of software engineering practice. 
5 
CO1 
 
b) Requirements elicitation process ensures the development of a 
system that meets user and business needs effectively. Briefly 
discuss the various steps of generic elicitation process. 
5 
CO2 
 
c) There is no unique, perfect and ready-to-use process model that 
can be adopted one and for all, in all organisations, for all kinds of 
products or product families. Describe some factors that play a vital 
role in choosing a Software Process Model. 
5 
CO1 
 
UNIT I 
 
CO 
Mapping 
Q2 
Attempt any one part 
(1*10=10) 
 
 
a) When you work to build a product or system, it is important to go 
through as series of predictable steps-a road map that helps you 
create a timely, high-quality, result. How the software process 
forms the basis to achieve this goal. 
10 
CO1 
 
b) As the requirements are identifies and the requirements model is 
being created. Portray the relationship between requirements 
elicitation and model building. 
10 
CO2 
 
 
 
 
UNIT II 
 
CO 
Mapping 
Q3 
Attempt any one part 
(1*10=10) 
 
 
Projects, Inc. is an engineering firm with approximately 500 engineers 
of different types. The company keeps records on all employees, their 
skills, projects assigned, and departments worked in. New employees 
are hired by the personnel manager based on data in an application 
form and evaluations collected from other managers who interview 
the job candidates. Prospective employees may apply at any time. 
Engineering managers notify the personnel manager when a job opens 
and list the characteristics necessary to be eligible pool of applicants 
with the characteristics of an open job, then schedules interviews 
between the manger in charge of the open position and the three best 
candidates from the pool. After receiving evaluations on each 
interview from the manger, the personnel manager makes the hiring 
decision based  upon the evaluations and applications of the 
candidates and the characteristics of the job, and then notifies the 
interviewees and the manger about the decision. Applications of 
rejected applicants are retained for one year, after which time the 
application is purged. When hired, a new engineer completes a 
nondisclosure agreement, which is filed with other information about 
the employee.  
 
 
 
 
a) Draw the context level Data Flow Diagram 
10 
CO2 
 
b) Draw the Use Case Diagram 
10 
CO2