1 
 
(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE) 
Course Name: MBA, Semester:1st  
(December, 2024) 
 
Subject Code: MMS 105 
Subject: Marketing Management  
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8
=20) 
 
a) Discuss the different approaches to marketing and how they influence a 
company’s marketing strategies. 
 
 
b) Matching a company’s capabilities with customer’s wants In context of above 
explain concept of Make and sell”  to  “Sense-and-respond” . 
 
 
c) Geographical Shift in Population explain the concept in reference to marketing 
environment  
 
 
d) Explain the strategies marketers use to address each type of demand. 
Homogeneous Demand &  Diffused Demand  
 
 
e) Explain the concept of estimating the demand curve in pricing strategy. How this 
estimation is done in pricing decisions. 
 
 
f) Describe the concept Captive Product Pricing or Rajor and bait Marketing & 
Skimming Pricing in special pricing strategies. 
 
 
g) Discuss the role of Advertising and Public Relations in promotional Mix. 
 
 
h) Explain AIDA Model for Promotional MIX. 
 
UNIT I 
 
Q2 
Read the Case carefully and answer the questions below:  
You have been appointed as the marketing manager for a new start-up offering a 
subscription-based meal kit delivery service that specializes in healthy, organic 
ingredients. The service is designed to cater to busy professionals who are health-
conscious but do not have the time to shop for groceries. 
1- Outline the strategies you would implement to generate awareness and attract 
customers. 
2. What unique features would set your meal kit service apart from other 
competitors in the market? 
(10) 
Q3 
What is the concept of customer value in marketing? How can businesses create and 
deliver superior customer value to gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. 
(10) 
UNIT II 
 
Q4 
How do businesses analyze consumer needs and market trends to adapt their 
marketing strategies? What tools or techniques can companies use to stay 
updated with market changes? 
(10) 
Q5 
Conduct a PEST analysis for the electric vehicle industry. Identify and analyze the 
factors that could influence the marketing decisions of your company. 
1- How would these factors impact your company's product development, pricing 
strategy, market expansion, and promotional efforts in the coming years? Provide 
specific examples to support your analysis. 
(10) 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
UNIT III 
 
Q6 
What is the product life cycle, and why is it important for businesses to manage it 
effectively also How can companies adjust their marketing strategies at each stage 
of the product life cycle. 
(10) 
Q7 
Describe the key factors that influence pricing decisions and Discuss how external 
factors and internal factors affect pricing strategies. 
(10) 
UNIT IV 
 
Q8 
Discuss the different types of marketing organizational structures. How does each 
structure affect decision-making, communication, and strategy execution. 
(10) 
Q9 
Why is marketing control important in the marketing management process? Discuss 
the concept of a marketing audit and how it helps companies evaluate and improve 
their marketing strategies. 
(10)