(Please write your Enrollment Number) 
Enrollment No. 
 
 
MID-TERM EXAMINATION 
Course Name : MBA ,Semester :Second 
(March 2025) OFF LINE mode 
 
 
Subject Code: MMS 110 
Subject: Knowledge & Intellectual Capital Management 
Time : 1 ½Hours 
Maximum Marks : 30 
 
 
 
 
 
Q1 
Write short note on the following 
(2.5*4) 
CO 
(a) 
Concept of Knowledge Management 
CO1 
(b) 
Knowledge Economy 
CO1 
(c) 
Knowledge Drivers 
CO2 
(d) 
Importance of Knowledge Centric Organizations 
CO2 
 
Q2 
(Attempt any Two Parts )     UNIT-1  
(5,5) 
CO 
(a) Explain the applications of knowledge management in manufacturing industry 
with examples. 
CO1 
(b) How would you describe the evolution of Knowledge Management? 
CO1 
(c)Explain key challenges in front of Knowledge management 
CO1 
 
Q3 
  (Attempt any Two Parts )     UNIT-2  
(5,5) 
CO 
 (a) Explain different types of knowledge with its implications for KM. 
CO2 
 
 (b) Explain   SECI model of Knowledge creation in an organization 
 
CO2 
 
 (c) Ms. Rani, a research scholar suggests that the privileging and prioritizing of what 
she calls expert or theoretical knowledge can result in local, contextual tacit know 
ledge becoming so marginalized that it can be often neglected if not ignored. One of 
the most vivid organizational examples she gives to illustrate her argument concerns 
the knowledge of some delivery drivers employed by a bakery. The owners of the 
bakery decided that they wanted to better understand the changing nature of the 
tastes and demands of the final customers who bought their goods (which they 
bought from the shops that were the bakery’s direct customers). Despite of the fact 
that the some of the bakery’s own employees (the delivery drivers who took their 
goods to the shops) arguably possessed such knowledge, through the Ongoing 
conversations they had with the shops’ owners that happened when their deliveries 
were made, this source of knowledge wasn’t used. Instead, the bakery’s owner spent 
a significant amount of money employing external consultants to conduct some 
market research. For Rani, the reason that the delivery driver’s knowledge was 
overlooked and not used was due to its character. Fundamentally, this knowledge 
was tacit, subjective, experience based and content specific and was possessed by 
the workers low down in the organizational hierarchy. For the owners of the bakery 
this was regarded as a less legitimate and less objective form of knowledge to that 
which the market research consultants could provide (which was regarded as 
objective, abstract, generalizable and scientific). Rani suggests that this is far from an 
isolated example and that the privileging of theoretical knowledge over local 
contextual, tacit knowledge is an attitude which is prevalent in many, if not majority 
of the organizations. 
 Questions: 
 (a) Do you agree with this conclusion regarding the dominance of this perspective?  
(b) Do you think potentially important and useful knowledge is overlooked and 
neglected due to its tacit, contextual and experiential character 
 
CO2 
 
 
Note: Q. 1 is compulsory.