(Please write your Enrollment Number)                     Enrollment No._________________ 
 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS) (SUBJECTIVE TYPE) (Offline) 
Course Name: MBA, Semester: 3 
(December, 2024) 
 
Subject Code: MMS 203 
Subject: Corporate Governance 
Time: 3 Hours 
Maximum Marks: 60 marks 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(2.5*8=20) 
CO Mapping 
 
a) Write a short note on Corporate Social Responsibility. 
CO1 
 
b) “The Trusteeship Principle exists only in theory but not in practice.” Critique in the 
context of corporate governance. 
CO2 
 
c) Explain key provisions of Companies Act 2013 and revised Clause 49 of Listing 
Agreement about corporate governance in India.      (5 marks) 
CO2 
 
d) Analyse the foundation of corporate governance across globe using examples of 
various global committees.                                    (5 marks) 
CO3 
 
e) ‘Two-tier board companies are better governed than one-tier board companies.’ 
Explain with suitable illustrations. 
CO3 
 
f) What is executive and managerial compensation. How it differs from other forms 
of compensation. 
CO4 
UNIT I 
 
CO Mapping 
Q2 
On February 2018, Wipro limited, a leading global information technology, 
consulting and business process services Indian company, announced that it 
had been names as one among the world’s most ethical company for 2018 by 
Ethisphere Institute, for the 7th successive year. 
 
Ethisphere had announced 135 companies spanning 23 countries across 57 
industries that had been named to the 2018 World’s Most Ethical Companies 
list. 
 
The World’s Most Ethical Companies assessment is based upon Ethisphere 
Institute’s Ethics Quotient (EQ) framework. Scores are generated in five key 
categories: ethics and compliance programme; corporate citizenship and 
responsibility; culture of ethics; governance; leadership, innovation and 
reputation. 
 
The Code of Business Conduct (COBC) provides the ethical guidelines and 
expectations for conducting business on behalf of Wipro Limited, its 
subsidiaries and affiliate companies. The COBC applies to all employees and 
members of the Board of Directors of the Company. The COBC is designed to 
help employees recognize and deal with ethical issues in their work. 
The 2013 case of embezzlement by Wipro insider might have little impact on 
the company’s business or image but highlighted the need for better 
measures on corporate governance and fraud. The Wipro staffer (who 
reportedly committed suicide later) from the company’s corporate accounts 
division stole $4 million (Rs. 18 crore) from the company’s bank account by 
accessing a colleague’s password. In 2009, the World Bank even made public 
that Wipro had been debarred from doing any business with the global 
lender, thought the company’s Chairman Azim Premji stated that the 
company had not done anything unethical. 
a) Do ethics and governance go hand in hand? Explain in the context of 
Wipro. 
(10) 
CO1 
b) “Wipro’s ethical winning spree is not free from its set of issues and 
challenges.” Explain.  
Q3 
Explain different approaches to CSR which are followed by corporate houses. 
Which CSR model is considered supreme? 
(10) 
CO1 
UNIT II 
 
CO Mapping 
Q4 
The Maggi controversy began in March 2014, when a district food inspector 
in Uttar Pradesh sent samples of Maggi Noodles for routine tests. These tests 
revealed the presence of MSG, a flavour enhancer, even though Maggi 
packets say the snack has “No Added MSG”. Additional tests in May showed 
up to 7 times the permissible amount of lead as well. Both lead and MSG have 
harmful side effects on health. Due to this, the UP Food and Drug 
Administration took Nestle to court. FSSAI conducted nationwide tests on 
Maggi. After finding similar results by another lab test in Delhi, the Delhi 
Government also filed a case against Nestle India. 
 
Soon, Maggi was pulled off the shelves in June 2015 on account of getting 
banned for six months across the country. The company had to recall and 
destroy 38,000 tonnes of Maggi noodles from millions of retail shelves. 
On January 2019, the Supreme Court gave the National Consumer Disputes 
Redressal Commission (NCDRC) the permission to proceed with a class action 
suit brought against Maggi noodle makers Nestle in 2015 by the Centre for 
allegedly selling noodles to consumers that fell short of the existing food 
standards. In the suit, the Centre has sought Rs 640 crore by way of 
compensation as these noodles contained excessive lead and flavour 
enhancer monosodium glutamate (MSG) and the company misled the 
consumers. 
 
a) What are the outcomes of Supreme Court ruling for stakeholder’s 
interests at large? 
b) What lessons are learnt about corporate governance from the 
present case? 
(10) 
CO2 
Q5 
“Whistle-blowing has drawn attention to various corporate frauds in recent 
times but at the same time has been abusive.” Critique. Discuss the merits 
and demerits of whistle-blowing. 
(10) 
CO2 
UNIT III 
 
CO Mapping 
Q6 
Illustrate and contrast the corporate governance system in USA and any other 
country of your choice. 
Also, explain the provisions of Sarbanes Oxley Act (2002). 
(10) 
CO3 
Q7 
In reference to our class discussion on case “Nissan Motors: Corporate 
Governance Failure”, answer the following questions: 
a) What could Nissan have done differently to avoid its downfall in the 
1990s? 
b) What circumstances made Ghosn’s misconduct possible? How can 
companies prevent such misconduct? 
c) Critically evaluate the corporate governance practices adopted by 
Nissan 
(10) 
CO3 
UNIT IV 
 
CO Mapping 
Q8 
Write a short note on the following: 
a) Types of boards 
b) Roles and Responsibilities of Board of Directors 
c) CEO duality 
d) Duties entrusted on the Board of Directors 
(10) 
CO4 
Q9 
“Satyam is called as the Enron of East.” Critique. Who are the real culprits of 
Satyam fiasco? Is it only the promoters or others as well? 
(10) 
CO4