1 
 
(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine) 
Course Name: MBA, Semester: III 
(December, 2024) 
 
Subject Code: MMS 285 
Subject: Marketing Analytics  
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
 
(5*4=20) 
 
a) Explain the significance of marketing analytics in the context of big data. 
 
 
 
b) Define Customer Lifetime Value (CLTV) and explain why it is crucial for 
customer segmentation. 
 
 
c) Define the following terms in the context of conjoint analysis: 
 Attributes 
 Levels 
 Utility values 
 
 
d) Analyzing digital marketing data reveals a click-through rate (CTR) of 2% on 
50,000 impressions. Calculate the number of clicks received. 
 
UNIT I 
 
Q2 
A company wants to assess the ROI of influencer marketing. List the relevant 
metrics to measure its success and justify the choice. 
(10) 
Q3 
Explain how metrics like Click-Through Rate (CTR) and Cost Per Click (CPC) are 
used to measure the success of digital marketing campaigns. 
(10) 
UNIT II 
 
Q4 
A dataset has two features: Age and Income. Explain stepwise how K-Means can 
segment customers into clusters based on these features.  
(10) 
Q5 
How can companies use CLTV to optimize their marketing spend? Provide 
examples. 
(10) 
UNIT III 
 
Q6 
A study involves three attributes for a smartphone: 
 Battery Life: 10 hours, 20 hours, 30 hours 
 Price: ₹10,000, ₹15,000, ₹20,000 
 Brand: Brand A, Brand B 
How many possible combinations of product profiles can be created? List them.  
(10) 
Q7 
How can conjoint analysis assist in determining the trade-offs customers are 
willing to make? Explain using a numerical example 
(10) 
UNIT IV 
 
Q8 
"The company also underestimated the costs of running the digital advertising 
campaigns. Shravan, in discussions with the agency, planned a fixed spend of 
₹200,000 per month on advertising. The agency charged a fixed rate retainer of 
₹100,000. The initial expectation was that PPC and Facebook advertising would 
account for about 50 percent of the advertising costs, and the remaining 50 
percent would be equally distributed among other channels (especially email 
marketing). But PPC and Facebook campaigns took a substantial chunk of the 
(10) 
2 
 
budget (approximately 75 percent), leaving little for the other channels. Despite 
the spend, PPC did not account for much of the conversions." 
 
How did Medfirst India’s budgeting for digital ads impact their overall marketing 
performance? What could they have done to better manage their advertising 
costs and improve their ROI? 
Q9 
"Karpuram reflected that insights that could have been analyzed, including 
customer attribution channels, Google keyword searches, and campaigns, were 
hardly touched. The company had collected extensive data on customer 
acquisition and behavior but failed to use this information to revise their 
marketing or optimize the website." 
 
How did Medfirst India fail to capitalize on valuable insights from customer 
attribution and Google keyword searches? What could they have done differently 
to optimize their customer acquisition and retention strategies? 
(10)