(Please write your Enrollment Number)                         Enrollment No._________________ 
End-Term Examination 
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(Offline) 
Course Name: M. Plan, Semester: First Semester 
(December, 2024) 
 
Subject Code: MUP 111 
Subject: Women and Habitat 
Time :3 Hours 
Maximum Marks :60 
 
Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV. 
 
Q1 
Attempts all questions 
(2.5*8=20) 
 
a) Explain the concept of habitat. 
 
 
b) Explain the importance of gender-sensitive urban planning. 
 
 
c) Explain Gender mainstreaming in urban planning. 
 
 
d) Explain Gender Auditing. 
 
 
e) Explain the challenges faced by Women in accessing urban spaces. 
 
 
f) How does climate change disproportionately impact women in urban areas? 
 
 
g) What are the key provisions of the 74th Constitutional Amendment Act (CAA) for 
enhancing women’s participation in local governance? 
 
 
h) What are the recommendations of the Draft National Policy for Women (2016) for 
institutionalizing gender-sensitive urban planning? 
 
UNIT I 
 
Q2 
Explain the concept of Inclusive Planning and its importance in achieving gender-
sensitive urban development. Provide examples. 
(10) 
Q3 
Discuss women's roles in society and how urban planning can address their unique 
needs effectively. 
(10) 
UNIT II 
 
Q4 
Evaluate how SDG 5 and SDG 11 can be integrated into urban planning to empower 
women and promote sustainability. 
(10) 
Q5 
Discuss the tools of Gender Budgeting and Gender Impact Assessment in urban 
planning. How do they contribute to women's empowerment? 
(10) 
UNIT III 
 
Q6 
Analyze the impact of climate change on women in urban areas, considering their 
socio-economic conditions. 
(10) 
Q7 
 Identify and discuss barriers to women’s access to urban spaces and suggest planning 
solutions to address these challenges. 
(10) 
UNIT IV 
 
Q8 
How can women’s participation in local governance under the 74th CAA be 
strengthened to ensure gender-sensitive urban planning? 
(10) 
Q9 
Explain the institutional mechanisms needed to achieve gender equality in urban 
planning. Discuss concerning the Draft National Policy for Women (2016). 
(10)